# Experiments in Tech Enabled Home Improvements

## Disclaimer
This isn't a guide or even suggestion for what to do. It's more of a high level record of some of the experiments I've done in improving tech in my home. This post is a stream of consensus writing, without revisions. I plan to write more about future projects that should be more well written and better researched. This is more a backdated journal for me to think about what got me here. Geohot has at the bottom of his blog, and I've plagiarized on mine: This is a home for poorly researched ideas...

## Intro
As a kid, I was often the one to tackle technical issues. This was usually plugging cables and other pretty simple tasks. I remember taking apart an old 90's laptop that my grandpa gave me on my bedroom floor. I've always been interested about how things work. As a eager teenager, this really bloomed as I grew my passion for cars. As a teenager, I did a lot of work on cars and got --student ASE-- certified. My most proud accomplishment was spending one winter break rebuilding a manual transmission in a '91 Susuki Swift with a friend. I loved when could replace the struts in my father's 2004 Toyota Camry and significantly improve the ride, or do a coolant flush that resulted in a much more quite and smooth feel in the car. As I moved out I continued learning and pursuing the understanding of how things work that feel magical around me, and using that understanding to make things work better for myself and others.

The other day, my wife and I were talking about early times in our dating. I have a fond memory (that she seems to have forgotten) of scratching my love of improving life through tech itch early in our courtship. She had a little non-smart TV in her apartment, connected to her laptop with an HDMI cable. She would get up to change the show and to play or pause. I wasn't sure how, but knew there must be a better way. It needed to make it easier to control her computer from the other side of the room, or display her computer to the TV from the other side of the room. A key constraint was that we didn't have much money. I went back to school and did some research, ultimately deciding that the Google Chromecast would be the best option for her.The next weekend we purchased a Chromecast from the local Best Buy and set it up for her. It was a great solution at that time and was used until we moved in together and had a smart TV.

Since getting my girlfriend (now wife) a Chromecast, we've had many many projects to improve our lives with technology, and I love it. Below are what I remember about some of my favorite examples, and I plan on writing more detail in real time during future projects.

## Smart Lights
Early in our marriage, I worked in a data processing role. I'd sit at a computer 8-10 hours a day looking at student loan repayment requests while listening to audiobooks and podcasts. This is the time when I was expanding my interest in finance (which eventually lead to me getting a job at Fidelity, which was right across the street), and technology. One of the 'tech' podcasts that I started to listen to was Cortex, with Myke Hurley and CGP Grey. I enjoyed listening to how they thought about the tech in their lives and the value it brings them. These conversations inspired me to change the way I look at tech in my life. Without means to change too much, a cost benefit analysis that made sense to me was smart lights. First, specifically a smart bulb in the bedroom so that while in bed we can turn off the light without getting up (huge quality of life improvement). We went with Kasa smart lights, mostly for the cost benefits, and have loved it. We now have many lights, strips, plugs, and cameras around the house.

As I've learned more, how I would do this in the future would be different. Once we buy a house, I'd love to run cable throughout for cameras, wire switches for lights, get a smart thermostat and temp gages for each room, garage door, and front door lock, with all of it running locally. Probably going with Ubiquiti.

## Homebridge
One of my least favorite aspects of Kasa is that most of their products didn't support Apple Homekit. This want is what lead me to learning about homebridge. I currently have homebridge running on an old 2014 Lenovo laptop running Ubuntu. Homebridge is a connection between the Kasa and Apple ecosystems. You add homebridge to Apple Home and Kasa to homebridge. Now, I'm able to manage devices through the Home App, Control Center, and Siri, even setting up complex Shortcuts. It's been a great bandaid until I can pull the trigger on an ideal solution.

## TrueNas
Another system that I'm playing with and is still in it's early days is a NAS. I year or two back, I got an old 2012 desktop pc from my grandfather as it was just sitting in a closet not being used. I added an SSD, more RAM, and upgraded the case (from an blue acrylic to cheep basic one), and some of the fans (to Noctua for quieter and so they supported fan control), using it mostly to learn Linux and Bitcoin. Last year, I was getting more serious about backups and decided to give that computer more of a purpose, as a TrueNAS Server. It is far from ideal, and I still have a few things I'd like to set up on it. One of the less ideal things is that it only has one 12Tb hard drive, so there is no protection if it dies. It certainly isn't my only, or even primary backup, but it's been a great learning experience and I look forward to the time, and money, to improve the NAS.
