# this website

## purpose
I want to flip the ratio between what I consume and what I produce. I want to build and this is the start.
I've dabbled with certifications and learning skills here and there, but it's time to accelerate. This site is a place for me. If anyone finds anything useful, that's great. I'll have other projects and websites that I'll hope provide value for others, but this is a place for me to implement what I learn in a messy way.

I hope that as I build and demonstrate these skills, I will show clear thinking and passion for technology and providing value. I do want to get a full time job as a software developer with a good income that will provide a comfortable life for my family while doing a job that I enjoy. If this website and the practice I get from it helps me in that goal, it's a success.

# it's design
I started with a basic personal website when I went through the Replit 100 days of Code - python course. Towards the end of the course it teaches how to set up a basic web server using Flask and host a little site. I wanted to use that to create this portfolio site, but didn't want to pay for hosting and put it off. I learned about GitHub pages and decided to use it for hosting. Mainly because it's free. It's basic HTML, CSS, and one JavaScript function inspired by Andrej Karpathy. I've enjoyed the simple personal websites of Paul Graham, Patrick Collison, and George Hotz; modeling this site after theirs. As I learn more about system design and networking, I'll want to do more with the site and have plans to figure out another hosting option. I'm inspired by Pieter Levels with his businesses run on a VPS, and find the HomeLab community interesting, and want to learn more about the cloud as it'll be helpful in a business context. I have a lot to learn still and am excited for the journey.
